Hello everybody and welcome to this
tutorial.
I have Kali Linux machine here running.
I have left installation process in the last tutorial
because it was, quite frankly, pointless to just sit there and wait through it
and wait for it to finish
primarily because Kali Linux installation tends to be a bit longer
than the installation of other Linux operating systems
primarily because of the prepackaged tools that come with it.
However, there were a few screenshots that I have made
that some of the options that you were asked
while the installation process was going on
so there were just three of them.
I'm just gonna go ahead and open them up here.
So the first one that happened was that I was asked --
Do you want to use a network mirror
to supplement the software that is included on the cd-rom?
This may also make newer versions of
software available.
I said "no" because I'm gonna do an update
as soon as I finish the installation process
and as soon as I configure everything in
the proper way.
The update is the configuration that I'm going to do, so it doesn't matter.
No I do not want to use any mirrors or anything of the kind.
Just gonna say no
and go ahead and proceed with the installation.
So next up is the GRUB
So GRUB boot loader
It is asking me
"Do you want to install GRUB boot loader to the master boot records?"
Yes I do
Just click on it, as this is the only operating system on this machine
on this computer.
There's nothing that I can mess up by
installing the GRUB boot loader
to the master boot record of the first hard drive
as it is stated here in the instructions.
You can use the GRUB boot loader in order to configure multiple boots
or, I don't know, you can put 3 4 5 operating systems
as many as you like
as many as your hardware can support
not at the same time, of course
but at boot time, you will be prompted
and asked "Which operating system do you wish to boot?"
That's also one of the options that you can have with GRUB
but aside from that, just click "Yes" there.
and there's a final one
It's simply states that the installation is complete
and if you had used a CD to complete this installation
or a USB or something of a kind
you will need to remove that media
and reboot the system in order for all of this to function.
So that would be it.
I was asked those three VERY simple questions
You have the answers here.
Just go through them
it will not make a difference in the final account things.
Just gonna go ahead and close this
and now I'm gonna go ahead and log into my Kali Linux virtual machine
So the user name is
this is actually one of the rare occasions
actually this is pretty much the only occasions
where I log into GUI with root.
but as you will soon realize in Kali Linux
everybody just logs in with root
primarily because you are not using Kali Linux to browse web
or something like that.
You are usually using it 99% of time to perform some sort of an attack
and for all those tools, you need to be
pretty much for all those tools, you need to be a root user
or have root privileges.
Most the time there's no point to have any other users on a Kali Linux distro
So type in "root"
Press "Enter"
Password was "test"
Yours is whatever you appointed it to be
Of course if it's a virtual machine, you don't need to worry that much
but if it's your main machine or something like that
Kali is generally not recommended to be your main desktop machine
That's not a good idea.
Rather run it as a virtual machine.
Okay, so first there are
I need to do a few things, like updates
in order for me to be able to install VirtualBox guest additions
so that we may use full screen and that we may use shared clipboard
and so on and so forth.
Just go ahead and change this.
Open up my terminal and set the view.
This is non-technical stuff that you can do this you can configure anyway
This you can configure anyway you like.
I'm just zooming it in for the purposes of tutorial
so that you may see it better
but before we can do updates
before we can do ANYTHING
we must verify that we have connectivity to the internet.
Here we go.
Nothing is happening, so I cannot ping yahoo.com
meaning that I don't have exit to the
external network.
I cannot a access the internet.
That's a pretty big problem because
pretty much whatever we do
we will need internet connectivity for it
in order to download packets from the repositories, to perform updates
and to conduct scans
possible scans
and so on and so forth.
So just go ahead and click on "Devices"
Find network
Network Settings
and here you can see by default, it will be set to NAT
but you don't want the NAT, you want "Bridged Adapter"
and you want to choose your adapter here.
Mine is p8p1
See what yours is and click "Allow VMs"
Virtual machines
So okay, if you don't know what the adapter on your machine is
and you are using a Linux system
just go ahead, open up your terminal
and type in "ifconfig"
Here you will be able to see a listing of adapters that you have.
So you have lo, which is loopback.
You have p8p1, which is my ethernet connection
This is for some virtual machines as well
and I have wlp2s0 which is my wireless interface
So I know that for a fact I'm using p8p1
primarily because my network manager tells me that I am.
You see connected to p8p1.
This is also a better way of actually checking what you are connected to
and which adapter you are using.
So just open up your network manager in the upper right corner
and look at p8p1 -- It says "connected"
Your network manager's position can vary
depending on how you've configured your system.
By default it will be in the bottom right corner
but that is easy enough to find either way.
Let's just go ahead and close this terminal
now that we have actually configured our network.
Have we? Yes we have.
but still, I'm pretty sure I won't have internet connectivity.
Let me just try ping again
and you see it is simply not working.
So there is a problem once again.
So let's just go ahead and check the Kali Linux network manager
and it says "Wired network but device not managed"
That could be a problem
and that is a general problem which you will face with wired interfaces.
Pretty much all the time.
There's a relatively easy fix to it.
You just navigate over in the terminal
You type in "cd", which stands for "change directory"
to "etc network manager"
Let's see what's in it.
Excellent
We have NetworkManager.conf
I'm gonna go ahead and type in "nano"
which is the text editor that I am going to be using
and then type in NetworkManager.conf
Press "Enter"
There we go.
It opens up the configuration file.
You do need to be root in order to make any changes here.
It says "main, "plugins", "ifupdown", "keyfile"
"ifupdown", "managed=false"
So where it says "false" , just delete this and type in "true"
Control O to save
Press "Enter"
Control X to exit
Now we need to actually restart our network managers.
So just go ahead and type in "service network"
There we go.
"network manager restart"
Stopping and starting.
Excellent
Connection established
You are now connected to ifupdown (ath0)
Let's check the connectivity
So ping yahoo.com
Excellent
So now we have internet connectivity
and pay attention to the steps here.
They're quite important because
not so much for the ethical hacking part
as they are to actually setting up the environment
because setting up the environment itself can be troublesome.
You can encounter multiple problems, bugs, etc.
and instead of having to go from one forum to the other
trying to find a solution, you can just
go through this tutorial
just pay a bit of attention
and I will show you pretty much how to
resolve pretty much all the issues
that you might encounter
because I myself am doing
I have done a fresh install here
and I would be encountering the same
problems that anybody else would
and I would like to go over them
because more likely than not, if you are performing a virtual machine installation
you will encounter similar problems as I have.
Although should you encounter any other problems
please feel free to pose questions
and I will be more than happy to provide any answers that I can.
So let's just go ahead and clear the screen
and now that we have internet connectivity
I would like to perform some updates, which are necessary.
Believe me, you need to perform regular updates of the system
because you will find that certain things will not work after a while
So let me just change directory
Clear the screen again
Type in "apt-get"
"update"
So I could do this with one command in
Fedora
but here I'm gonna need two of them.
So it's picking up things from the repositories.
Excellent
Now I need to type in "apt-get"
"upgrade"
Press
and you see it says
"After this operation, 73.7 MB of additional disk space will be used"
This is this last sentence here that I am marking
and that is quite a bit, in terms of updates.
I mean, look at all the packages.
These are all the packages that are to be updated.
List goes on and on
Well, there you go.
It starts from here and it doesn't end anytime soon
It goes all the way down.
So anyway, just type in "yes"
You don't actually need to type in capital Y.
You just type in "y"
Press 'Enter"
and the update process will start.
Now depending on your internet connection
this might take shorter or longer amounts of time.
I will end this tutorial here
until the updates actually finish
because I don't want to be standing here in front of the screen
but in any case, these updates will finish until the end.
You're not gonna be posed any questions at a certain point of time
during the update process.
You might be notified of some things.
A screen might pop with some texts.
That's perfectly fine
You can read through it and then close it.
Those are "Read Me" files
specifying the characteristics of certain packages
and what has been upgraded
but don't go about just reading it there.
You can close it later on, if you wish
You can do further exploration
and actually discover what each of these packages contains.
In any case, we will continue this process in the follow up tutorial.
Until then, I bid you all farewell.